What is Cybersecurity? Everything You Need to Know [Updated]
By Simplilearn
Last updated on Jul 12, 202234776
What is Cybersecurity? Everything You Need to Know
Table of Contents
What is Cyber Security?Types of Cyber CrimesWhat Motivates Cyber Criminals?Who Are Cyber Security Experts?Cyber Security Education
Picture an employee at her computer, working with data. In the background, a hacker secretly accesses her company’s confidential files. He steals sensitive information and sells it to criminals, who then hold the company ransom for a profit.

It sounds like something out of a movie, but unfortunately, it’s a common occurrence in today’s online landscape. This is why Cyber Security has become such a vital part of any business strategy—and Cyber Security specialists are in demand now more than ever.

In this introduction to Cyber Security, you will learn how Cyber Security works, why it’s needed, what Cyber Security experts do to protect data, and how to become one.

Looking forward to a career in Cyber Security? Then check out the Certified Ethical Hacking Course and get skilled. Enroll now!
What is Cyber Security?
Cyber Security is a process that’s designed to protect networks and devices from external threats. Businesses typically employ Cyber Security

professionals to protect their confidential information, maintain employee productivity, and enhance customer confidence in products and services.

The world of Cyber Security revolves around the industry standard of confidentiality, integrity, and availability, or CIA. Privacy means data can be accessed only by authorized parties; integrity means information can be added, altered, or removed only by authorized users; and availability means systems, functions, and data must be available on-demand according to agreed-upon parameters.

The main element of Cyber Security is the use of authentication mechanisms.
For example, a user name identifies an account that a user wants to access, while a
password is a mechanism that proves the user is who he claims to be.

What is Cybersecurity? Everything You Need to Know [Updated]
By Simplilearn
Last updated on Jul 12, 202234776
What is Cybersecurity? Everything You Need to Know
Table of Contents
What is Cyber Security?Types of Cyber CrimesWhat Motivates Cyber Criminals?Who Are Cyber Security Experts?Cyber Security Education
Picture an employee at her computer, working with data. In the background, a hacker secretly accesses her company’s confidential files. He steals sensitive information and sells it to criminals, who then hold the company ransom for a profit.

It sounds like something out of a movie, but unfortunately, it’s a common occurrence in today’s online landscape. This is why Cyber Security has become such a vital part of any business strategy—and Cyber Security specialists are in demand now more than ever.

In this introduction to Cyber Security,


you will learn how   Cyber Security works, why it’s needed, what Cyber Security experts do to protect data, and how to become one.

Looking forward to a   career in

Cyber Security? Then   check out the Certified Ethical Hacking Course and get skilled. Enroll now!
What is Cyber Security?
Cyber Security is a   process
that’s designed to protect networks a
nd devices from external threats. Businesse
s typically employ Cyber Security professionals to protect t
heir confidential information, maintain employee productivity, and enhance cu
stomer confidence in products and services.

The world of Cyber Security revolves around the industry standard
 of confidentiality, integrity, and availability, or CIA. Privacy
  means data can be accessed only by authorized parties; integrity means i
  nformation can be added, altered, or removed only by authorized users; and availability means systems, functions, and data must be available on-demand according to agreed-upon parameters.


The main element of Cyber Security is the use of authentic
ation mechanisms. For example, a user name identifies an account that a user wants to access, while a password is a mechanism that proves the user is who he claims to be.

Types of Cyber Crimes
Cybercrime is any unauthorized activity involving a computer, device, or network. The three types are computer-assisted crimes, crimes where the computer itself is a target, and crimes where the computer is incidental to the crime rather than directly related to it.

Cybersecurity Bootcamp
Certificate and Masterclasses From UCI DCEEXPLORE NOWCybersecurity Bootcamp
Cybercriminals usually try to prof
it off of their crimes using a varie
ty of tactics, including:

Denial of Service, or DOS
Where a hacker consumes all of a se
rver’s resources, so there’s nothing for leg
itimate users to access
Malware
Where victims are hit with   a worm or virus that renders their devices useless
Man in the Middle
Where a hacker puts himself between a victim’s machine and a router to sniff data packets
Phishing
Where a hacker send  s a seemingly legitimate-looking email asking users to disclose personal information
Other types of cyberat  tacks include cross-site scripting attacks, password
attacks, eavesdropping attacks (which can also be physical),
 SQL-injection attacks, and birthday attacks based on algorithm functions.
What Motivates Cybepplied same techniques to human grandmasters. Their approach is aimed at predicting future moves made by the players, but the opponent model created with some additional processing can be utilized for opponent identification or at least verification. This can be achieved by comparing new moves made by the player with predicted ones from models for different players and using the achieved accuracy scores as an indication of which profile models which player.     4) Biometric Sketch: Bromme et al. [28, 29] proposed a biometric sketch authentication method based on sketch recognition and a user’s personal knowledge about the drawings content. The system directs a user to create a simple sketch for example of three circles and each user is free to do so in any way he pleases. Because a large number of different combinations exist for combining multiple simple structural shapes sketches of different users are sufficiently unique to provide accurate authentication. The approach measures users’ knowledge about the sketch, which is only available to the previously authenticated user. Such features as the sketches location and relative position of different
primitives are taken as the profile of the sketch. Similar approaches are tried by
 Varenhorst [44] witr Crimina ls?
The main     motive  behind   the cybercrime is to disrupt regular business activity and
critical infrastructure. Cybercriminals also commonly manipulate stolen data to benefit financially, cause financial loss, damage a reputation, achieve military objectives, and propagate religious or political beliefs. Some don’t even need a motive and might hack for fun or simply to showcase their skills.

So who are these cyb  ercriminals? Here’s a breakdown of the most common types:
Designing interactive systems is concerned with many different types of product. It is about designing whole
environments in which phones, PDAs, laptop computers, digital projectors and other devices communicate with
one another and through which

people interact with one another. It is about designing interactive systems,
products and services for the home, for work or to support communities. Here are some examples of recent
interactive produc
ts and systems.
Examplec. changed the face of mobile technologies when they introduced the iPhone. The
iPhone had a carefully crafted, purpose-designed interface to make use of the finger as the input
device. It had a                revolutionary touch-sensitive screen that allowed for multi-touch input. They
introduced 3D touch also commonly known as force touch with iPhone 6s and 6s Plus in 2015.
Example 2: Wii
oncentrate on reviewing and analyzing all existing HCI-based biometric technologies.      HCI
-based biometrics provide a number of advantages over traditional biometric technologies. They can be colle
cted non-obtrusively or even without the knowledge of the user. Collection of data usually does not requir
e any special hardware and is so very cost effective. While HCI-based biometrics are not unique enough to
provide reliable human identification they have been shown to provide high accuracy identity verification.    In their interaction with computers human beings employ different strategies, use different style and apply unique abilities and knowledge. Intrusion detection researchers attempt to quantify such HCI-based-biometric traits and use resulting feature profiles to successfully verify user identity and reject intruders. HCI-based biometrics can be subdivided into two different categories known as direct and indirect HCI-based biometrics [3].     First group is made up of those biometrics which are based on direct human interaction with input devices such as keyboard [4-10], computer mouse [11-15], and haptics [16-18] which rely on supposedly innate, unique and stable muscle actions [19] and those biometrics which are based on advanced
 human behavior such as strategy, knowledge or skill exhibited by the user during interaction with different softw
Also, in 2007 Nintendo introduced the Wii. The Wii was a revolutionary new games concept that used infra-red
sensors attached to an this paper we survey the state of the art in direct and indirect human computer interaction based biometrics. Direct HCI biometrics are based on abilities, style, preference, knowledge, or strategy used by people while working with a computer. The indirect HCI-based biometrics are events that can be obtained by monitoring users’ HCI behavior indirectly via observable low-level actions of computer software. We examine current research and analyze the types of features used to describe HCI behavior. After comparing accuracy rates for verification of users using different HCI- based biometric approaches we address privacy issues which arise with the use of HCI dependant biometrics. Finally, we present results of our experiments with direct and
 indirect HCI-based behavioral biometrics emp
 loyed as a part of an intrusion detection system TV or other display device to track a wand that transmitted infra-red signals. The new
system could, therefore, register different gestures such as a ‘bowling’ action, a
‘tennis shot’ action or a host of
other movements. The notion of computer games changed radically, from a young person shooting at imaginary
monsters, or driving imaginary cars, to a family-wide entertainment. When the ‘Wii fit’ was introduced it
appealed to a new audience of people wanting to keep fit at home.


Black-Hat H  ackers

Black-hat h  ackers use fake identitie  s to conduct malicious activities for a profit
Gray-Hat Ha  ckersScript Kiddies
                  They are unskilled hackers

                   who run scripts and software created by more experienced hackers
                  Cyber Te rrorists
                  They create fear by disrupting large-scale computer networks; motivated by religious or political beliefs
                  State-Spo  nsored Hackers
                  They penetrate government networks, gain top-secret information, and damage information systems; paid by a hostile government
                  Hacktivists
They work both with malicious   intent   and as legitimate security analysts
White-Hat Hackers

White-hat hackers